David Lane

[0:01:23] 
Good evening panel. In view of the report released today by
the Equality and Human Rights Commission which identified serious failings by
the Labour party in dealing with anti-Semitic racism, should just one
individual be held to account?

 
Fiona Bruce

[0:01:42] 
Chris.

 
Chris Philp MP

[0:01:44] 
Well, it’s a damning report. It finds the Labour party acted
unlawfully. It finds that Jeremy Corbyn’s office effectively covered up 23
different allegations of antisemitism. But it think this goes beyond just
Jeremy Corbyn. I think Keir Starmer has questions to answer himself, because
for five years Keir Starmer sat on the Labour front bench and said nothing
while this was going on. I didn’t hear him condemning this activity, I didn’t
hear him holding Jeremy Corbyn to account, unlike many other Labour MPs and
many Labour front benchers. He didn’t resign from that front bench. He said
nothing. He defended Jeremy Corbyn, and indeed he promoted Jeremy Corbyn as a
potential Prime Minister less than a year ago. So I think Keir Starmer needs to
do two things if he’s serious about fixing this. Firstly, he should apologise
personally for his failure to speak out on this issue when he was on the front
bench, because it was all very convenient for him to sit there and say quiet in
the hope that he would then take over as leader. Rather cynical I think. And
secondly, he needs not to just suspend Jeremy Corbyn, he should kick Jeremy
Corbyn out of the Labour party because this report is so damning, and Jeremy
Corbyn’s response to it this morning saying the whole thing had been hugely
exaggerated for political purposes, was disgraceful. So I think Kier Starmer
needs to do those two things if he’s really serious about fixing this issue.